Let's talk about JavaScript libraries.
So because we're using React Native we
can use both native libraries as well as
JavaScript libraries.
So one of the big benefits of React Native
is that we can leverage this ridiculously
huge JavaScript ecosystem.
So not all JavaScript libraries are going
to work with React Native if there's
reference the browser window or
if they work with CSS they
won't work with React Native.
But there's still a huge amount of
utility libraries that are compatible.
So one of these is state functions.
So I like to use these functions for
formatting dates.
So it's basically utility library and
it has a lot of different help and
methods for interacting with dates.
So getting whether they just in the past
or the future or how many days or
seconds in between.
And these functions has
a nice format utility,
which basically allows you to
format a date, however you want.
So, let's install this library.
So, I'm going to use Yarn.
So, if you open your terminal and
Yarn add date functions.
So, notice that because this is
a JavaScript library, we won't need to do
any of this rebuilding of our native app,
we just install the library.
And in this case, we don't even need
to rerun the packager it will just work
Now let's make our dates
follow the following format.
So 29 Sep, year and then at and
then add the current time.
So if we go to the format documentation
which is here they have a reference for
how you actually format
each of the dates so
let's start with the simple one so
we want 29 as the current day
So let's have a look to day of month.
Okay, so we just want D.
Okay, so in our mood picker, so
let's go to home where we have our date.
So let's import format
from date functions.
And here we have our timestamp
let's wrap this in format.
So the first argument or format is
the date that you want to format.
Get your remove to string here and
then a second argument is
the way that you want to format.
So if I just add this
D It's going to be fresh.
So all these say 28, because there's
a day today now for
the month that's fine month.
Okay, so
we can see that this format will be MMM.
So if I do space and I get Sep.
So I'll just copy this or
have a reference of what I'm going to.
Okay, so I think you just do a comma.
Yeah, so you can just add the comma there.
And then we want the year.
Just look up here.
Calendar year.
Okay, so calendar year will be full wise.
Okay?
Then we want add, so to add arbitrary
text, we use single quotes.
So let's do adds.
An ad shows up here and
then we want the hours and
minutes so let's find hours
Okay, hours in two digits, so that's HH,
and minutes in two digits, that's MM and
finally we want the AM or
PM, and this is just AAA.
So again, add it to the end And now we
get the format that we were looking for.
Now, finally, we want to style the mood
item growth as per this beautiful design.
So you'll notice that we have
an additional color here.
So we use this lavender color for
the date.
So added the color here on the theme so
called color lavender.
So if you copy this and
add it to your theme.ts and
then we can use it anywhere
in our application
So in components, let's create a new
file called mood item, for that TSX.
And I'm just going to
copy this file from here
And in our home, I'm going to update
our map to use the mood item row instead.
So mood, let's stop map, and
it's over towing a text.
Let's return a mood item row.
And let's pass in item.
To be the item and
don't forget to use the key.
So key is item.timestamp.
So don't worry about
these going off the page.
We're going to fix that later.
Let's just remove things we don't need.
And there was a key warning somewhere.
So it seems so there's always the top
level element that needs to have the key.
So because we reflected this
just didn't have a key so
let's do key = option.emoji.
Yeah, so the key warnings don't show
up when you're hot reload all the time.
So sometimes it's handy to do
a fresh reload to find them.
Excellent, we got to the end
of the UI elements recap.
So now let's talk about
how to handle data.